| Control | M365 Product |
| ----------- | -------------|
| AC L1-3.1.1. Authorized Access Control | Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), Conditional Access, Azure Role-Based Access Control, Microsoft Intune |
| AC. L1-3.1.2 - Transaction and Function Control | Azure Active Directory, Azure Role-Based Access Control | 
| AC. L1-3.1.20 - External Connections | Azure Active Directory, Conditional Access, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 1, Microsoft Defender Antivirus, Windows Defender Firewall, Microsoft Intune |
| AC. L1-3.1.22 - Control Public Information | Azure Active Directory, Azure Role-Based Access Control |  

**AC. L1-3.1.1 - Authorized Access Control** 
**Control language:** 
* Limit information system access to authorized users, processes acting on behalf of authorized users, or devices (including other information systems)

[a] authorized users are identified 
[b] processes acting on behalf of authorized users are identified 
[c] devices (and other systems) authorized to connect to the system are identified 
[d] system access is limited to authorized users 
[e] system access is limited to processes acting on behalf of authorized users 
[f] system access is limited to authorized devices (including other systems) 

Control summary: 

The organization must develop a process to identify what people, processes, and technologies are authorized to access organization-controlled resources. Once authorized users and devices are identified, security controls must be put in place to limit their access to only the resources to which they are authorized. 

Microsoft 365 licensing required: 

Microsoft 365 E3 licensing offers the following features to be leveraged to satisfy the requirements of this control: ▫ Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)- Azure AD Premium Plan 1, Conditional Access ▫ Azure Role-Based Access Control (Azure RBAC) ▫ Microsoft Intune How to implement using Microsoft 365: To successfully meet this requirement an organization will need to maintain an active roster of all assets (people, processes, and technologies) authorized for access to organizational resources [a,b,c]. Additionally, the organization will need to limit access to only authorized assets by using Azure AD and Microsoft Intune. Authorized users will need to have accounts created in Azure AD with Username, Password, and Multifactor Authentication access controls in place. Furthermore, it is best practice to classify all users in Azure AD based on roles using Azure AD Role-Based

Access Control (Azure AD RBAC). Non-Privileged user accounts should be assigned to a role with read-only permissions for Microsoft 365 resources. Authorized devices (Windows 10/11, macOS, iOS, Android) would need to be enrolled using Microsoft Intune to gain access to Microsoft 365 resources. Azure AD combined with Microsoft Intune allows the organization to create conditional access policies (policies that allow you to control access for users and devices). Additionally, system access for user accounts and devices can be controlled by creating security groupings and assigning members (users, devices) to the group, and assigning group access to authorized resources. This process will dictate their ability to access content stored within Microsoft 365 (i.e., Exchange, SharePoint, OneDrive, Microsoft Teams) [d,e,f]. Microsoft technical reference documentation: Enrolling Windows 10/11 devices in Intune Enrolling macOS devices in Intune Enrolling iOS devices in Intune Enrolling Android devices in Intune What is Azure Role-Based Access Control? Assigning user roles in Azure Creating groups in Azure AD Implementing conditional access with Azure Grant user access to resources using Azure

AC. L1-3.1.2 - Transaction and Function Control Control language: Limit information system access to the types of transactions and functions that authorized users are permitted to execute

Determination statements: [a] the types of transactions and functions that authorized users are permitted to execute are defined [b] system access is limited to the defined types of transactions and functions for authorized users Control summary: The organization must document the different user roles and capabilities those roles are allowed to perform when using organizational resources. The organization will need to place technical restrictions on user accounts to prevent them from performing unauthorized actions. Microsoft 365 licensing needed: Microsoft 365 E3 licensing offers the following features to be leveraged to satisfy the requirements of this control: ▫ Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) - Azure Active Directory Premium Plan 1 ▫ Azure Role-Based Access Control (Azure RBAC) How to implement using Microsoft 365: To successfully implement this control, the organization will need to create a document which lists all types of user roles which will be deployed on the information system. This document must also list the types of actions each specified role is permitted to perform [a]. Using Azure AD and Azure RBAC, the organization can classify users based on their documented roles. Azure RBAC allows for the fine-tuning of user role permissions to enable the organization to restrict what resources the user can access and what they are allowed to do when they are accessing them. These permissions will need to align with capabilities defined within organizational documentation [b]

Microsoft technical reference documentation: What is Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC)? | Microsoft Docs Assigning user roles in Azure

AC. L1-3.1.20- External Connections Control language: Verify and control/limit connections to and use of external information systems. Determination statements: [a] connections to external systems are identified [b] the use of external systems is identified [c] connections to external systems are verified [d] the use of external systems is verified [e] connections to external systems are controlled/limited [f] the use of external systems is controlled/limited Control summary: The organization will need to control and manage connections between both internal and external resources, connections to cloud services, and network connectivity devices (routers, wireless access points). This includes: i. Control and limit personal devices like laptops, tablets, and phones from accessing the company networks and information ii. Limiting connections to outside systems from the internal network iii. Limiting connections from external systems to internal resources

Microsoft 365 licensing needed: Microsoft 365 E3 licensing offers the following features to be leveraged to satisfy the requirements of this control: ▫ Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) - Azure Active Directory Premium Plan 1, Conditional Access ▫ Microsoft Defender for Endpoint – Microsoft Defender for Endpoint Plan 1, Microsoft Defender Antivirus Windows Defender Firewall ▫ Microsoft Intune How to implement using Microsoft 365: The organization will need to create documentation designed to outline the information and data flow on the network, as well as network diagrams that call out the external connections (VPN, Cloud applications, etc.) [a,b]. Microsoft Defender for Endpoint includes an endpoint firewall, Windows Defender Firewall, which will need to be enabled on the endpoint connecting to the information system using Microsoft Intune. Microsoft Defender for Endpoint offers Network protection capabilities which helps prevent access to dangerous web domains via applications. Domains that host phishing scams, exploits, and other malicious content on the Internet are considered dangerous. Network protection must be configured to block all outbound HTTP(s) traffic that attempts to connect to low-reputation sources (based on the domain or hostname) [c,d]. Using Azure AD and Microsoft Intune, the organization will enable conditional access policies for users and devices. These policies will include limiting user access to company resources based on roles, device type, and/or location. Users can be limited to connecting to company resources by only using company-approved, owned, or registered devices. The organization may also choose to add geographical restrictions to user logins through conditional access. This requires assets attempting to connect to the system to be identified and verified prior to being granted access to the system [c,d,e,f]. Microsoft technical reference documentation: Best Practices for configuring Windows Defender Firewall Enabling Windows Defender Firewall

AC. L1-3.1.22 - Control Public Information Control language: Control information posted or processed on publicly accessible information systems. Determination statements: [a] individuals authorized to post or process information on publicly accessible systems are identified [b] procedures to ensure FCI is not posted or processed on publicly accessible systems are identified [c] a review process is in place prior to posting any content to publicly accessible systems [d] content on publicly accessible systems is reviewed to ensure that it does not include FCI [e] mechanisms are in place to remove and address improper posting of FCI Control summary: The organization is responsible for preventing FCI data from being publicly posted without permission. The organization must control who possesses the capabilities to not only access FCI on the information system, but also identify who is authorized to distribute information to the public. To ensure that FCI does not get distributed without permission, is removed, or incorrectly/accidentally distributed, the organization must develop a process to review and authorize information prior to distribution. Additionally, the organization will need a process in place to remove or retract information incorrectly shared. Microsoft 365 licensing needed: Microsoft 365 E3 licensing offers the following features to be leveraged to satisfy the requirements of this control:

Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)- Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) - Azure Active Directory Premium Plan 1 ▫ Azure Role-Based Access Control (Azure RBAC) How to implement using Microsoft 365: Using a combination of documented policies and procedures in addition to enforcement of access permissions through Azure AD and Azure RBAC, the organization will need to authorize personnel who are permitted to distribute information to the public on behalf of the company [a,b]. For a user to post FCI, the user must have access to the information system and file directory where the data is stored. For this to happen, they would have to be granted access by role using Azure AD. To assure that FCI is not publicly posted intentionally or unintentionally, the organization will need to develop a process for the review of all content prior to public release. This review process should include a review of the content to ensure it does not include FCI prior to authorization being granted for distribution [c,d]. Finally, the organization must have a documented process for the removal of FCI accidentally posted to public forums without authorization. This process must include the removal of the data, potential consequences for the responsible party, and an afteraction review to identify ways to prevent similar instances in the future [e].