Organizations are not required to leverage solutions found in the Microsoft 365 E3 license to satisfy the CMMC Maturity Level 1 requirements of the Media Protection (MP) control family. Instead, organizations can implement documented policies & procedures and carry out process tasks to satisfy the requirements. MP. L1-3.8.3 - Media Disposal Control language: Sanitize or destroy information system media containing Federal Contract Information (FCI) before disposal or release for reuse. Determination statements: [a] system media containing FCI is sanitized or destroyed before disposal [b] system media containing FCI is sanitized before it is released for reuse

This requirement applies to all media, both digital and traditional, subject to disposal or reuse. The organization maintains a responsibility to limit the spillage and unauthorized access of data by either destroying system components used to store FCI prior to disposing of or reusing the assets. Examples include, but are not limited to, digital storage components found in devices, portable storage devices, or mobile devices. The intent of this process is to prevent the retrieval or reconstruction of sensitive information from the device. NIST SP 800-88 provides guidance on best practices for media sanitation. Microsoft 365 licensing needed: ▫ Solutions found in the Microsoft 365 E3 license are not required to satisfy this requirement. Organizations should implement documented policies & procedures and carry out process tasks to satisfy this requirement. How to implement: NIST SP 800-88 documentation lists clear, purge, and destroy as acceptable media sanitation techniques as: • Clear - applies logical techniques to sanitize data in all useraddressable storage locations for protection against simple noninvasive data recovery techniques; typically applied through the standard Read and Write commands to the storage device, such as by rewriting with a new value or using a menu option to reset the device to the factory state (where rewriting is not supported). • Purge - applies physical or logical techniques that render Target Data recovery infeasible using state-of-the-art laboratory techniques. • Destroy - renders Target Data recovery infeasible using state-ofthe-art laboratory techniques and results in the subsequent inability to use the media for storage of data - NIST SP 800-88

For purposes of satisfying this control, the organization should create a media sanitation procedural document which requires that all system media be either cleared, purged, or destroyed prior to reuse or disposal. Devices intended for re-use, such as endpoints and mobile devices, should be wiped clean of all data and reset to factory defaults prior to the re-issuance of the devices [a,b]. Devices intended for disposal should be restored to factory settings, wiped clean of all previous store data, and destroyed using methods that disintegrate, pulverize, melt, or incinerate the device prior to disposal [a].