Microsoft 365 Licensing for Maturity Level 1 To satisfy the requirements found in CMMC Maturity Level 1, organizations must implement basic cyber hygiene principles throughout the information system which will be used to store, process, or transmit FCI in performance of their DoD contract. Among the requirements, the organization will need to establish strong access control, identification, and authentication capabilities for all users and devices. Additionally, Maturity Level 1 requires organizations to become proactive with resolving system flaws, protect from malicious threats, and increase their awareness of the connections to and from their information system. 

Based on the requirements of the 17 controls applicable to CMMC Maturity Level 1, an organization in need of satisfying these requirements should leverage the products and features associated with Microsoft 365 E3 licensing. The M365 E3 license empowers
organizations with the capabilities of Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), Microsoft Intune, and Microsoft Defender for Endpoint; these features can be leveraged by organizations as solutions independently or complementary to one another to satisfy the requirements of CMMC Maturity Level 1. 

To assure proper due diligence is taken before securing Microsoft licensing, the organization must not only fully evaluate current contractual requirements and sensitivity levels of the data that they handle, but also determine whether future business strategies may include contracts with higher CMMC maturity level requirements. 

The implementation guidance provided within this document is designed to help organizations meet the minimum data safeguarding requirements attached to FCI. Although the products and services recommended by this guide do not fully represent the features required to meet the higher maturity levels of CMMC. The increased safeguarding requirements of the remaining higher maturity levels of CMMC would require additional M365 products and their applicable licenses.