For this guide, the assumption is that the organization is utilizing a full suite of Microsoft cloud services. The Microsoft implementation of FedRAMP requirements help ensure Microsoft in-scope cloud services meet or exceed the requirements of CMMC. This allows organizations to assume that in execution of their contract with Microsoft, physical protections must be adequate to satisfy CMMC requirements. 

The organization will still assume responsibilities to successfully implement the control to prevent unauthorized disclosure of information accessed or discussed. Physical protections will need to be in place to prevent FCI from being seen while also being accessed in organizationally controlled spaces. An organization may also interact with physical forms of FCI in the performance of a contract for each physical control, and the organization will assume all responsibility to successfully implement the measures to prevent unauthorized disclosure of information stored.

PE. L1-3.10.1 - Limit Physical Access Control language: Limit physical access to organization information systems, equipment, and the respective operating environments to authorized individuals.

Determination statements: [a] authorized individuals allowed physical access are identified [b] physical access to organizational systems is limited to authorized individuals [c] physical access to equipment is limited to authorized individuals [d] physical access to operating environments is limited to authorized individuals Control summary: This control requires organizations to create physical protections to prevent unauthorized access to physical or logical data storage locations. The organization must identify who has access to both physical and logical data and place physical measures in place to stop those not authorized to access resources. Microsoft 365 licensing needed: ▫ Solutions found in the Microsoft 365 E3 license are not required to satisfy this requirement. Organizations should implement documented policies & procedures and carry out process tasks to satisfy this requirement. How to implement: The organization will need to create a list which details all personnel authorized to access organizationally owned spaces [a]; this includes granular details of specially protected areas of the physical environment where greater restrictions for access are put into place. The organization will need to demonstrate that physical boundaries are put in place to prevent unauthorized access to organizational owned devices and areas. This can be accomplished through constructing fences, locking doors and windows, etc. [b,c,d] Microsoft technical reference documentation: None

PE. L1-3.10.3 - Escort Visitors Control language: Escort visitors and monitor visitor activity Determination statements: [a] visitors are escorted [b] visitor activity is monitored Control summary: The organization is responsible for restricting access to their physical environment to only authorized personnel. Any person without a normal DTD business need to access the organization’s facilities must be escorted and always monitored while on site. Microsoft 365 licensing needed: ▫ Solutions found in the Microsoft 365 E3 license are not required to satisfy this requirement. Organizations should implement documented policies & procedures and carry out process tasks to satisfy this requirement. How to implement: The organization must document all personnel with an authorized business need to access their physical facilities. Organizational policies and procedures must indicate, and the organization must execute the following for all personnel not listed on the organizations authorized access roster: 1. The visitor must sign in and out of a visitor log when arriving and departing the facility [a,b] 2. The visitor must wear a badge or other identifier to establish that they are a visitor to the facility [b] 3. The visitor must always be escorted while on company property protected by physical access controls[b].
Microsoft technical reference documentation: None

PE. L1-3.10.4 - Physical Access Logs Control language: Maintain audit logs of physical access devices Assessment objective: [a] audit logs of physical access are maintained Control summary: An audit log of physical access can either be a physical document detailing personnel who have accessed areas of the facility or automated logging of physical access devices such as badge readers. This includes areas of initial facility access, restricted access for areas of sensitive assets, or a combination of the two. No matter the method of access control logging (physical or automated) the organization will need to maintain a record of the entries into the log. Microsoft 365 licensing needed: ▫ Solutions found in the Microsoft 365 E3 license are not required to satisfy this requirement. Organizations should implement documented policies & procedures and carry out process tasks to satisfy this requirement. How to implement: The organization will need to determine the method for restricting access to areas not designated for the public. In areas where facility access must be restricted for any reason, the organization is required to maintain logs of access events for these designated areas. This can be achieved by maintaining a physical sign-in sheet-type document where physical access to the areas can be recorded. In the case of digital badge readers or other electronic physical access devices with built-in logging capabilities; the organization must develop a process to retain the digital logs created for a determined period [a]. Microsoft technical reference documentation: None

PE. L1-3.10.5 - Manage Physical Access Control language: Control and manage physical access devices Determination statements: [a] physical access devices are identified [b] physical access devices are controlled [c] physical access devices are managed Control summary: This control requires organizations to identify the devices which will be used to restrict access to areas of the facility which require additional protective measures. The organization will also need to maintain control of the devices used to restrict access to identified areas as well as manage who has access capabilities to bypass the access controls the devices are intended to provide. This could include limiting the replication of physical keys to a list of authorized personnel or controlling who has management capabilities for logical access control devices such as badge readers.

Microsoft 365 licensing needed: ▫ Solutions found in the Microsoft 365 E3 license are not required to satisfy this requirement. Organizations should implement documented policies & procedures and carry out process tasks to satisfy this requirement. How to implement: In the organization's asset inventory, assets used to provide physical protection should be identified and documented. Badge readers, Locks, cameras, and other physical access control devices should all be accounted for and documented [a]. The organization will need to identify through documented policies and procedures how they intend to control maintenance and configuration of the identified physical control devices and who is authorized to perform these tasks [b]. This can include tasks such as controlling who can make keys to physical locks, adding users, or issuing access mechanisms such as keys, keycards, access pin numbers, etc. This should also include the creation of an authorization process to approve changes to the devices and the issuing of the access control mechanisms to personnel [c]. Microsoft technical reference documentation: None